' $Header: /sprite/src/lib/c/time/RCS/Time_ToAscii.man,v 1.3 90/11/27 16:04:18 kupfer Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
'
'  ROUGH DRAFT!!!
'
.so \*(]ltmac.sprite
.HS Time_ToAscii lib
.BS
.SH NAME
Time_ToAscii, Time_FromAscii, Time_ToParts, Time_FromParts \- time conversion routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <spriteTime.h>\fR

\fBTime_ToAscii\fR(\fIseconds, isInterval, bufferPtr\fR)

\fBTime_FromAscii\fR(\fIbufferPtr, timePtr\fR)

\fBTime_ToParts\fR(\fIseconds, isInterval, partsPtr\fR)

\fBTime_FromParts\fR(\fIpartsPtr, isInterval, secondsPtr\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AP int seconds in
A time value in seconds to be converted to Ascii.
.AP Boolean isInterval in
If TRUE, interpret the time as a time interval.
.AP char *bufferPtr out,in
A buffer to hold the converted time.
.AP Time *timePtr out
Buffer to hold a time value  converted from Ascii.
.AP Time_Parts partsPtr in/out
Buffer to contain  the decomposed time values.
.AP int *secondsPtr out
Place to store time value converted from parts.

.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBTime_ToAscii\fR and \fBTime_FromAscii\fR procedures convert a time value in
seconds to and from Ascii. \fBTime_ToParts\fR converts a time value in seconds into
the year, month, day of year, day of month,m day of week, hours, minutes, 
and seconds. 
\fBTime_FromParts\fR converts a time value from its parts to seconds.
Don't give it a date before January 1, 1970 and make sure that the day
of year corresponds to the month and day of month values.
An interval is the difference between two times.
.SH KEYWORDS
ascii, time
