'\" $Header: /sprite/src/lib/c/host/RCS/Host.man,v 1.5 90/12/13 00:08:00 kupfer Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
.so \*(]ltmac.sprite
.HS Host lib
.BS
.SH NAME
Host_ByName, Host_ByID, Host_ByNetAddr, Host_ByInetAddr, Host_SetFile,
Host_Start, Host_Next, Host_End \- return information about Sprite machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <host.h>\fR
.sp
Host_Entry *
\fBHost_ByName\fR(\fIname\fP)
.sp
Host_Entry *
\fBHost_ByID\fR(\fIspriteID\fP)
.sp
Host_Entry *
\fBHost_ByNetAddr\fR(\fIaddrType, addrPtr\fP)
.sp
Host_Entry *
\fBHost_ByInetAddr\fR(\fIinetAddr\fP)
.sp
int
\fBHost_SetFile\fR(\fIfileName\fP)
.sp
int
\fBHost_Start\fR()
.sp
Host_Entry *
\fBHost_Next\fR()
.sp
void
\fBHost_End\fR()
.sp
int
\fBHost_Stat\fR(\fIstatPtr\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "struct in_addr" inetAddr
.AP char *name in
The name of a Sprite host for which information is desired.
.AP int spriteID in
The Sprite ID of the host for which information is desired.
.AP Host_NetType addrType in
Type of network the host is on.  Also defines the type of \fIaddrPtr\fR.
Only \fBHOST_ETHER\fR and \fBHOST_INET\fR are defined right now.
.AP char *addrPtr in
The local network address of the host for which
information is desired. The actual type used is based on the value of
\fIaddrType\fP.  See the types defined below for the \fInetAddr\fR
union in Host_Entry structures.
.AP "struct in_addr" inetAddr in
The internet address of the host for which information is desired.
.AP char *fileName in
The name of a host-description file.
.AP struct stat *statPtr
Pointer to stat structure for host database file.
.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions are used to learn about hosts on the local Sprite network.
These functions cause the host description file to be opened.
\fBHost_End()\fR must be called to close the file.
.PP
A Host_Entry structure is defined as follows:
.DS
.ta 1c 2c 3c 4c 5c 6c 7c 8c 9c 10c
typedef struct {
	char			*name;	/* Primary name */
	char			**aliases;	/* Other names (null-terminated array) */
	int			id;		/* Sprite ID */
	struct in_addr		inetAddr;	/* Internet address */
	Host_NetType		netType;	/* Network used to connect to host */
	union {
		unsigned char		etherAddr[HOST_ETHER_ADDRESS_SIZE];
							/* Address for \fInetType\fR \fBHOST_ETHER\fR 
							   and gateway address for \fBHOST_INET\fR */
	} netAddr;					/* Address in that network */
	char				*machType;	/* Machine type, such as ``sun3''. */
} Host_Entry;
.DE
The Host_Entry structures returned by the routines are statically allocated
and may change on the next call to any \fBHost_\fR procedure.  Be sure to copy
out any information you need before calling a \fBHost_\fR procedure again.
.PP
\fBHost_ByName()\fR returns a Host_Entry based on the name or alias of a host.
.PP
\fBHost_ByID()\fR returns a Host_Entry for the host with the given sprite ID.
.PP
\fBHost_ByNetAddr()\fR returns the Host_Entry for the host with the given
local-area-network address.  The only type of network address currently
supported is \fBHOST_ETHER\fR, so the address must always have the
format defined for \fIetherAddr\fR in Host_Entry structures.
.PP
\fBHost_ByInetAddr()\fR returns the Host_Entry for the host with the given internet
address.
.PP
\fBHost_SetFile()\fR specifies a different host information
file to use (the file normally used
is \fB/etc/spritehosts\fR).
.PP
\fBHost_Start()\fR opens the current host-description file (if it isn't
already open), while \fBHost_End()\fR closes
it.  The \fBHost_By\fR... procedures automatically call \fBHost_Start\fR.
.PP
\fBHost_Next()\fR may be used to step through the current host-description file.
The host-description file must have been opened using \fBHost_Start()\fR or one of the
\fBHost_By\fR functions.
.PP
\fBHost_Stat()\fR is used to get the statistics for the host-description file.
See the \fBstat()\fR man page for details on the stat structure.
\fBHost_Stat()\fR is
useful if you are writing a daemon that wants to do something when
the host-description file is updated. 
The daemon can loop waiting for the modify time of the file to change.
Make sure the host-description file is closed (use \fBHost_End()\fR) before
the daemon waits, otherwise every machine running the daemon will have the
host-description file open, causing lots of consistency traffic.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBHost_SetFile()\fR,\fBHost_Start()\fR and \fBHost_Stat()\fR
return zero if all went well.  Otherwise
they return -1 and the \fBerrno\fR variable contains additional information
about what error occurred.
\fBHost_Next()\fR returns NULL on end-of-file or error. \fBHost_ByName()\fR,
\fBHost_ByID()\fR,
\fBHost_ByNetAddr()\fR and \fBHost_ByInetAddr()\fR return NULL if
the given host could not be found.
.SH FILES
/etc/spritehosts	The default host-description file.
.SH KEYWORDS
hostname, internet address, local net, machine type, sprite ID
