'\"
'\" Copyright 1992 Regents of the University of California
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
'\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
'\" granted, provided that this notice appears in all copies.
'\" The University of California makes no representations about
'\" the suitability of this material for any purpose.  It is
'\" provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
'\" 
'\" $Header: /user5/mottsmth/j/g/jget.man,v 1.8 92/05/07 09:02:14 mottsmth Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
'\" 
.\" The definitions below are for supplemental macros used in Sprite
.\" manual entries.
.\"
.\" .HS name section [date [version]]
.\"	Replacement for .TH in other man pages.  See below for valid
.\"	section names.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out [indent]
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS [type [name]]
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .VS
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
'\"	# Heading for Sprite man pages
.de HS
.if '\\$2'cmds'       .TH \\$1 1 \\$3 \\$4
.if '\\$2'lib'        .TH \\$1 3 \\$3 \\$4
.if '\\$2'tcl'        .TH \\$1 3 \\$3 \\$4
.if '\\$2'tk'         .TH \\$1 3 \\$3 \\$4
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \\n(.l
.ad b
..
'\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP	(\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
'\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
'\"	# BS - start boxed text
'\"	# ^y = starting y location
'\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
'\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
'\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
'\"	# ^Y = starting y location
'\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
'\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
'\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
'\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
'\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
'\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
'\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp .5
..
.HS jget cmds
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
jget \- list contents of a Jaquith archive directory. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjget\fR  [\fB\-arch \fIarchive\fR]
[\fB\-server \fIhostname\fR]  [\fB\-port \fIport\fR]
[\fB\-range (\fIdate1\fR,\fIdate2\fR)]
[\fB\-owner \fIname\fR] [\fB\-group \fIname\fR] 
[\fB\-abs \fIregexp\fR] [\fB-u]
[\fB\-asof \fIdate\fR] [\fB\-since \fIdate\fR]
[\fB-first \fIn\fR] [\fB-last \fIn\fR] [\fB\-all\fR]
[\fB\-moddate\fR] [\fIfilelist\fR]
[\fB-mail \fImailaddr\fR]
[\fB\-target \fIdirectory\fR] [\fB\-dir\fR]
[\fB\-filter] [\fB\-tar\fR] [\fB\-tarbuf \fIbufSize\fR]

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-arch \fIarchive\fR" 14
Name of logical archive.  If none is specified, the environment
variable JARCHIVE is used, if defined, else the default archive
is used.
.IP "\fB\-server \fIhostname\fR" 14 
Specifies host where Jaquith server is running. Defaults
to the environment variable JSERVER.
.IP "\fB\-port \fIport\fR" 14 
Specifies port number where Jaquith server is running. Defaults
to the environment variable JPORT.
.IP "\fB\-range \fIdate1\fR,\fIdate2\fR" 14
Retrieve files with date in specified range.
.IP "\fB\-owner \fIname\fR" 14 
Retrieve only files with specified owner name. 
.IP "\fB\-group \fIname\fR" 14 
Retrieve only files with specified group name. 
.IP "\fB\-abs \fIregexp\fR" 14 
Retrieve files which match \fIregexp\fR in their abstract lines.
.IP "\fB\-asof \fIdate\fR
Retrieve version which was current as of specified date. Equivalent to:
\-range(1-jan-1970,\fIdate\fR)
.IP "\fB\-since \fIdate\fR
Retrieve versions between \fIdate\fR and present date. Equivalent to:
\-range(\fIdate\fR,\fIpresent-date\fR)
.IP "\fB\-first \fIn\fR
Retrieve from the nth version in the date range.
.IP "\fB\-last\fR
Retrieve to the nth version in the date range.
.IP "\fB\-all\fR
Retrieve all the versions in the archive. Equivalent to: -first 1 -last -1
.IP "\fB\-moddate\fR
Use the file's modification date, not its archive date
for all date comparisons.
.IP "\fB\-mail\fR"  14
Send response by mail to \fImailaddr\fR.
.IP "\fB\-target \fIdirectory\fR" 14 
Restore file hierarchy relative to specified directory.
By default, files are restored with their original pathnames.
.IP "\fB\-dir\fR" 14 
Restore directory's top-level contents only.
.IP "\fB\-filter\fR" 14 
Run jget as in filter mode. Data is restored directly to stdout.
.IP "\fB\-tar\fR" 14 
Data is restored directly to stdout in tar format.
.IP "\fB\-tarbuf \fIbufSize\fR" 14 
With \fB-tar\fR option, use a buffer size of \fIbufSize\fR.
Default is 10KB.
.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBJget\fP provides a simple file retrieval mechanism
for an archive tape system controlled by the Jaquith program.
.PP
The primary argument \fIfilelist\fR is a  file expression
which specifies the files to be listed.  Shell-like globbing
is supported. '*' matches any number of characters. '?'
matches a single character. Additionally, curly braces can
be used to enclose alternatives. For example foo.{bak,?}
matches both foo.bak, foo.c and foo.h.
.PP
Note that any metacharacters which are
not protected with a backslash or quotes will be expanded by the
shell, not by the Jaquith system.
.PP
The default action is to retrieve the 
most recent versions of matching filenames.
The set of files retrieved can be controlled by the use of
one or more options.  The options are all logically ANDed
together; only files matching all criteria are retrieved.
.PP
The -range, -first and -last options work together to specify
a subset of the archived versions.  First, the date range is
applied, resulting in a list of candidates numbered logically
from 1 to \fIn\fR.  Then the first and last options are applied
to this list. First and last can be positive and retrieve the
specified filenames from restricted list, or they can be negative
in which case they count from the end of the list. Thus, the
most recent version of a file can be retrieved with 'first -1
last -1' without having to know how many versions currently exist.
.PP
\fIdate\fR is of the form \fIDateSpec[:TimeSpec]\fR. \fITimeSpec\fR
is of the form [hh[:mm[:ss]]], and \fIDateSpec\fR is of the form
dd\(hymonth[\(hyyyyy]. Month is the first 3 letters of the month;
all others are numbers. The '/' character is a substitute
for '-' and '.' may be used instead of ':'.

.SH BUGS
A file which matches more than one regular expression will be
retrieved multiple times.
.PP
There is currently no support for hard links.
.PP
Only one archive can be specified at a time.
.PP
Unlike the shell, the Jaquith globbing characters '*' and '?' match
a '.' in the first position.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
jaquith jmgr jls jstat jput jctrl jcopy jclean jbuild

.SH KEYWORDS
jaquith archive
