' $Header: /sprite/src/cmds/kmsg/RCS/kmsg.man,v 1.3 91/03/01 22:41:17 kupfer Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
.so \*(]ltmac.sprite
.HS KMSG cmds
.BS
.SH NAME
kmsg \- Manipulate a remote Sprite kernel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkmsg\fR \fIoption machine\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 15
Cause \fImachine\fR to leave the debugger and continue normal
processing.  \fIMachine\fR must currently be in the debugger.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 15
Cause \fImachine\fR to suspend normal processing and enter the
debugger.
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 15
Cause \fImachine\fR to reboot, using the default boot source.
\fIMachine\fR must currently be in the debugger.
.IP "\fB\-R\fI string\fR" 15
Cause \fImachine\fR to reboot, using \fIstring\fR as the boot
source.  \fIMachine\fR must currently be in the debugger.
.IP "\fB\-s\fI string\fR" 15
Print out the version string of the kernel being run by \fImachine\fR.
Exit with a 0 status if the version string matches \fIstring\fR,
and exit with a non-zero status if it doesn't match.
\fIMachine\fR must currently be in the debugger.
.IP "\fB\-v\fR" 15
Print out the version string of the kernel being run by \fImachine\fR.
\fIMachine\fR must currently be in the debugger.
.BE

.SH INTRODUCTION
.PP
The \fBkmsg\fR command is used to assist in debugging and rebooting
remote Sprite kernels.  \fIMachine\fR is the name of a machine
running Sprite, and \fIoption\fR specifies what sort of operation
to perform on that machine.  \fBKmsg\fR will open a special network
port to the specified kernel and send it messages to carry out the
specified operation.

.SH BUGS
The type (or at least byte-order?) of the target machine must match
that of the machine that
.B kmsg
is run on.

.SH KEYWORDS
debug, kernel, reboot, version
