' Copyright 1989 Regents of the University of California
' Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
' documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
' granted, provided that this notice appears in all copies.
' The University of California makes no representations about
' the suitability of this material for any purpose.  It is
' provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
' 
' $Header: /a/newcmds/rcsinfo.prog/RCS/rcsinfo.man,v 1.2 89/01/25 15:20:42 ouster Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
' 
.so \*(]ltmac.sprite
.HS RCSINFO cmds
.BS
.SH NAME
rcsinfo, rcstell \- Generate listing of files that are checked out via RCS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBrcsinfo\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIRCS-directory\fR]
\fBrcstell\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIRCS-directory\fR]
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-u\fR" 14
Only list files checked out by the user invoking the program.
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 14
For \fBrcsinfo\fR, produce no output if no files are locked.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program lists files checked out via RCS.  If invoked as
\fBrcsinfo\fR, it prints a verbose description of each file, including
the name of each file, who locked it, its RCS version number, and the
date and time when it was locked.  If invoked as \fBrcstell\fR, this
program prints just the name of each file that is checked out.  (This
may be useful for constructs such as ``\fBrcsdiff\fR
`\fBrcstell\fR`''.)  In each case, the \fB-u\fR option may be used to
restrict output to files locked by the caller.  

If no files are locked, \fBrcsinfo\fR prints a message to that effect
unless the \fB-s\fR (silent) option is specified.  \fBrcstell\fR
prints nothing in either case.

By default, the program lists files controlled by the subdirectory
\fBRCS\fR.  It may be directed to a different RCS directory by
specifying the name of the directory on the command line.
.SH KEYWORDS
RCS, list, checked out
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rcsdiff
