' $Header: /sprite/src/cmds/recovinfo/RCS/recovinfo.man,v 1.1 89/12/12 17:54:14 mgbaker Exp Locker: mgbaker $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
.so \*(]ltmac.sprite
.HS RECOVINFO cmds
.BS
.SH NAME
recovinfo \- Print out statistics about the potential state of recovery
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrecovinfo\fR  -[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-verbose\fR" 14
Print out all available information.
.IP "\fB\-fileID\fR"
Include the unique file ID's in the printed information.
.IP "\fB\-streamInfo\fP"
Include information about streams along with the I/O handle information.
.IP "\fB\-files\fP"
Print information only about objects of type local or remote file.
.IP "\fB\-all\fP"
Include information about I/O handles that wouldn't be recovered.
.IP "\fB\-names\fP"
Print the names, reference counts and cache information of the objects.
.IP "\fB\-server\fP \fIserverName\fP"
Only include information about recovery for objects on this server.
.BE
.SH INTRODUCTION
This command prints out information about what I/O and stream handles would
need to be recovered if access to servers were interrupted.  Without any
arguments, it just prints a summary of information, including the number
of file I/O handles that would need to be recovered, the number of files
with no associated stream, the number of files with no stream and no
cache blocks, the number of files with no stream and no dirty blocks, the
number of files with dirty blocks, and the total number of handles that would
need to be recovered at this time.  This summary information is useful
for determining where we can discard work in our recovery system.
.SH KEYWORDS
recovery, handles
