.ds ]W SPUR Release 1.0
.TH SNM 1 "29 May 1988"
.\" $Header: /a/newcmds/snm/RCS/snm.man,v 1.2 89/01/18 11:01:23 ouster Exp $
.SH NAME
snm \- print name list for SPUR binary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snm
[
.B \-gnoprua
]
[ 
.RI [ " filename " "] .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "snm command"  ""  "\fLsnm\fP \(em display name list"
.IX  display "name list of object file or library \(em \fLsnm\fP"
.IX  "programming tools"  snm  ""  "\fLsnm\fP \(em display name list"
.I Snm
is similar to \fInm\fR except that it operates on SPUR object files.
\fISnm\fR prints the name list (symbol table) of each object
.I filename
in the argument list.  If an argument is an archive, a listing for each object
file in the archive will be produced.  If no
.I filename
is given, the symbols in
.I a.out
are listed.
.LP
Each symbol name is preceded by its value (blanks if undefined)
and one of the letters:
.TP
.SM
.B A
absolute
.TP
.SM
.B B
bss segment symbol
.TP
.SM
.B C
common symbol
.TP
.SM
.B D
data segment symbol
.TP
.\".SM
.\".B f
.\"filename
.\".TP
.SM
.B  T
text segment symbol
.TP
.SM
.B U
undefined
.TP
.B \-
debug, giving symbol table entries (see
.B \-a
below)
.LP
The type letter is upper case if the symbol is external, and
lower case if it is local.  Symbols given values in shared regions are
followed by `S' or `s'.
By default, the output is sorted alphabetically by
symbol name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  \-g
Print only global (external) symbols.
.TP
.B \-n
Sort numerically rather than alphabetically.
.TP
.B  \-o
Prepend file or archive element name to each output line rather than only once.
.TP
.B  \-p
Don't sort; print in symbol-table order.
.TP
.B  \-r
Sort in reverse order.
.TP
.B  \-u
Print only undefined symbols.
.TP
.B  \-a
Print all symbols.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
snm
.LP
prints the symbol list of
.I a.out,
the default output file for the 
.BR C ,
.SM FORTRAN
77 and Pascal compilers.
.SH SEE ALSO
ar(1), ar(5), a.out(5)
