.\" @(#)df.1 1.2 86/07/29 SMI;
.TH XGONE 1 "25 February 1987"
.SH NAME
xgone \- lock the screen under the X window system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xgone
.I args
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xgone
locks the screen until a keypress is entered.
While waiting, it displays a message telling where the person went and
when they started the program and moves this text around the
screen to avoid burning them in at a particular location.
.PP
If no
.I args are provided, the program displays the text "X Gone" along with the
time.  If
.I args
are provided, then the concatenation of the arguments, separated
by spaces, is displayed instead of the default string.
.PP
To leave
.I xgone,
press any mouse key.  If password checking is enabled,
it will prompt you for your password, which will
not be echoed on the display.  End the password with ``Return.''  As
an accelerator, you may simply type your password.  Password checking
is disabled by default, so any input will then cause 
.I xgone
to exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.in +10
.ti -10
\-font     Specify the font to use for text on the screen.
.ti -10
\-sleep    Specify the interval between moves of the block of text on the
screen.
.ti -10
\-delay    Make the program drop in the background and delay starting for a
few seconds.  This is helpful when invoking
.I xgone
from a menu inside window managers like
.I twm
which don't allow a "grab" of mouse for a short time right at startup.
.ti -10
\-passwd    Enable password  checking.
.in -10
.SH DEFAULTS
.in +15
.ti -15
xgone.Font:    fontname  (same as \-font)
.ti -15
xgone.Text:    default text to use instead of "X Gone"
.ti -15
xgone.Sleep:   sleeptime in seconds   (same as \-sleep)
.ti -15
xgone.Update:  interval between updates   (same as \-update)
.ti -15
xgone.Delay:   boolean   (same as \-delay)
.ti -15
xgone.Passwd:   boolean, with true indicating password checking
should be done.
.in -15
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd	
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lockscreen(1), xlock(l)
.SH AUTHOR
Originally written for X10 by Tim Morgan at UCI.
.br
Modified and extended for X11 by Richard Johnson also at UCI.
.br
Modified by Fred Douglis for Sprite.

