.\"	$Source: /afs/athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/zephyr/src.audited/man/man1/RCS/zlocate.1,v $
.\"	$Author: raeburn $
.\"	$Header: /afs/athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/zephyr/src.audited/man/man1/RCS/zlocate.1,v 1.8 90/05/17 04:28:14 raeburn Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1987,1988 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" All rights reserved.  The file /usr/include/zephyr/mit-copyright.h
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"
.TH ZLOCATE 1 "April 17, 1990" "MIT Project Athena"
.ds ]W MIT Project Athena
.SH NAME
zlocate \- find a user using Zephyr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zlocate
[
.B -a
| 
.B -d
] user ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Zlocate
uses the
.I Zephyr(1)
Notification Service to find where a user is currently logged in.  If
the user is not logged in, or has set his location information such that
you do not have access to see it,
.I zlocate
prints "Hidden or not logged-in".  Otherwise, each machine that the
user is currently logged into is printed, along with the time of
login and location.  The location is usually the X window system display
name of the user's display, but may be the terminal name if he is not
using X or for some other reason is only using the terminal interface to
.I zwgc(1).

By default, all zlocate requests are authenticated using
.IR Kerberos .
If you do not have kerberos tickets, or for some other reason do not
want to authenticate, the
.B -d
option will turn off authentication.  The
.B -a
option is the default, authentication on.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I zlocate
exits with status zero (0) if at least one user was found, and one (1)
if no users were found.
.SH SEE ALSO
zctl(1), zephyr(1), znol(1), zwgc(1), zhm(8), zephyrd(8), X(1)
.br
Project Athena Technical Plan Section E.4.1, `Zephyr Notification
Service'
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Robert S. French (MIT-Project Athena)
.br
Marc Horowitz (MIT-Project Athena)
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Copyright (c) 1987,1988 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
All Rights Reserved.
.br
.I zephyr(1)
specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
