@section File Formats
A format is a BFD concept of high level file contents. The
formats supported by BFD are: 
@itemize @bullet
@item bfd_object

The BFD may contain data, symbols, relocations and debug info.@item bfd_archive
The BFD contains other BFDs and an optional index.@item bfd_core
The BFD contains the result of an executable core dump.
@end itemize
@*
@findex bfd_check_format
@subsubsection @code{bfd_check_format}
@strong{Synopsis}
@example
boolean bfd_check_format(bfd *abfd, bfd_format format);
@end example
@strong{Description}@*
This routine is supplied a BFD and a format. It attempts to
verify if the file attached to the BFD is indeed compatible
with the format specified (ie, one of @code{bfd_object},
@code{bfd_archive} or @code{bfd_core}).
If the BFD has been set to a specific @var{target} before the
call, only the named target and format combination will be
checked. If the target has not been set, or has been set to
@code{default} then all the known target backends will be
interrogated to determine a match. 
The function returns @code{true} on success, otherwise @code{false}
with one of the following error codes:  

@itemize @bullet
@item invalid_operation
if @code{format} is not one of @code{bfd_object}, @code{bfd_archive}or
@code{bfd_core}.@item system_call_error
if an error occured during a read -  even some file mismatches
can cause system_call_errros
@item file_not_recognised
none of the backends recognised the file format
@item file_ambiguously_recognized 
more than one backend recognised the file format.
@end itemize
@*
@findex bfd_set_format
@subsubsection @code{bfd_set_format}
@strong{Synopsis}
@example
boolean bfd_set_format(bfd *, bfd_format);
@end example
@strong{Description}@*
This function sets the file format of the supplied BFD to the
format requested. If the target set in the BFD does not
support the format requested, the format is illegal or the BFD
is not open for writing than an error occurs.
@*
@findex bfd_format_string
@subsubsection @code{bfd_format_string}
@strong{Synopsis}
@example
CONST char *bfd_format_string(bfd_format);
@end example
@strong{Description}@*
This function takes one argument, and enumerated type
(bfd_format) and returns a pointer to a const string
@code{invalid}, @code{object}, @code{archive}, @code{core} or @code{unknown}
depending upon the value of the enumeration.
@*
