.\"	$Source: /usr/sww/share/src/Zephyr/src/man/man8/RCS/zhm.8,v $
.\"	$Author: smoot $
.\"	$Header: /usr/sww/share/src/Zephyr/src/man/man8/RCS/zhm.8,v 1.8 1992/09/18 00:48:07 smoot Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1987, 1988 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" All rights reserved.  The file /usr/include/zephyr/mit-copyright.h
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"
.TH ZHM 8 "November 1, 1988" "MIT Project Athena"
.ds ]W MIT Project Athena
.SH NAME
zhm \- Zephyr HostManager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sww/etc/zephyr/zhm
[
.BI -d
] [
.BI -h
] [
.BI -r
] [
.BI -i
] [
.BI server
.BI ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Zhm
is the link between a client machine and the zephyr server.  All
notices sent from programs on the client are funneled through
.I zhm.
This allows all client programs to be much simpler in function, since
the HostManager is responsible for handling errors, retransmitting
lost notices, and holding all notices until they are acknowledged.
.PP
The
.I -d
option turns on debugging mode, and sends its information to syslog
LOG_DAEMON messages.
.PP
The
.I -h
option causes
.I zhm
to send a shutdown message and exit upon delivery of a SIGHUP signal.
The normal action on SIGHUP is to send a flush notice to the zephyr server.
.PP
The
.I -r
option causes
.I zhm
to send a boot notice to the server and exit when the notice is acknowledged.
.PP
The
.I -i
option indicates that
.I zhm
is being started by
.I inetd(8).
When this option is specified,
.I zhm
assumes that file descriptor zero (0) is bound to the UDP datagram port
designated for hostmanager use.  In this mode, SIGHUP is handled as if the
.I -h
option were specified.
.PP
The optional
.I server
arguments are used to replace the set of server names supplied by
the
.I hesiod(3)
name server.
.SH SEE ALSO
zephyr(1), zephyrd(8), inetd(8)
.br
Project Athena Technical Plan Section E.4.1, `Zephyr Notification
Service'
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
David C. Jedlinsky, MIT Project Athena
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Copyright (c) 1987,1988 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
All Rights Reserved.
.br
.I zephyr(1)
specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
